_ficampm/9_examples.md, before:

---
layout: page
collection: ficampm
title: Examples and Guidance
permalink: /pm/examples/
sticky_sidenav: true
sidenav: pm

subnav:
  - text: Agency Examples
    href: '#agency-examples'
  - text: Authorities to Consider
    href: '#authorities-to-consider'
---

We recommend leveraging existing resources to establish your Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) program and define roles and responsibilities across the enterprise.

On this page, you'll find guidance to help you implement your ICAM program:
- [Agency Examples](#agency-examples)
  - [Governance Structure](#governance-structure)
  - [ICAM PMO Charter](#icam-pmo-charter)
- [Authorities to Consider](#authorities-to-consider)
  - [Executive Order (EO) 13800 – Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure](#executive-order-eo-13800--strengthening-the-cybersecurity-of-federal-networks-and-critical-infrastructure)
  - [NIST Risk Management Framework](#nist-risk-management-framework)
  - [Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA) and OMB M-15-14](#federal-information-technology-acquisition-reform-act-fitara-and-omb-m-15-14)

## Agency Examples

### Governance Structure

The figure below provides an example of an ICAM governance and program management structure implemented by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/ficampm/examples_HHS-ICAM-Structure.png" alt="HHS ICAM Governance Structure." width="560" height="336">

### ICAM PMO Charter
For an example of an ICAM Program Management Office (PMO) charter, download the [HHS ICAM PMO Governance Charter]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/ficampm-hhs-governance-charter.docx){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} (MS Word, May 2019)

## Authorities to Consider

### Executive Order (EO) 13800 – Strengthening the Cybersecurity of Federal Networks and Critical Infrastructure

[EO 13800](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2017/05/16/2017-10004/strengthening-the-cybersecurity-of-federal-networks-and-critical-infrastructure){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} provides requirements to strengthen the cybersecurity of federal networks, including holding agency heads accountable for managing cybersecurity risk to their enterprises. 

> "Effective risk management requires agency heads to lead integrated teams of senior executives with expertise in IT, security, budgeting, acquisition, law, privacy, and human resources." - *EO 13800 - Section 1,b,v.*

### NIST Risk Management Framework

The [NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF)](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/risk-management-framework-(RMF)-Overview){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} provides an approach to managing organizational risk.

### Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act (FITARA) and OMB M-15-14

[FITARA](https://www.congress.gov/113/plaws/publ291/PLAW-113publ291.pdf#page=148%5D){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}, a U.S. law passed in December 2014, gives federal agency CIOs significant roles in IT investments including:

- Annual and multi-year planning
- Budgeting
- Reporting
- Management
- Governance
- Oversight functions

[OMB M-15-14](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/omb/memoranda/2015/m-15-14.pdf?msclkid=af985c3cc7f511ec9ae8691f3682c8d1){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} provides implementation guidance for FITARA and assists agencies in establishing effective governance.

Commit message:

policy matrix on pm playbook

_ficampm/9_examples.md, after:

---
layout: page
collection: ficampm
title: Examples and Guidance
permalink: /pm/examples/
sticky_sidenav: true
sidenav: pm

subnav:
  - text: Agency Examples
    href: '#agency-examples'
  - text: Directives and Policies
    href: "#directives-and-policies"
---

We recommend leveraging existing resources to establish your Identity, Credential, and Access Management (ICAM) program and define roles and responsibilities across the enterprise.

On this page, you'll find guidance to help you implement your ICAM program:

- [Agency Examples](#agency-examples)
  - [Governance Structure](#governance-structure)
  - [ICAM PMO Charter](#icam-pmo-charter)
- [Directive and Polices](#directives-and-policies)

## Agency Examples

### Governance Structure

The figure below provides an example of an ICAM governance and program management structure implemented by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).

<img src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/ficampm/examples_HHS-ICAM-Structure.png" alt="HHS ICAM Governance Structure." width="560" height="336">

### ICAM PMO Charter

For an example of an ICAM Program Management Office (PMO) charter, download the [HHS ICAM PMO Governance Charter]({{site.baseurl}}/docs/ficampm-hhs-governance-charter.docx){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"} (MS Word, May 2019)

## Directives and Policies

[See them at the new FICAM Policy Matrix](https://federalist-cf03235f-a054-4178-aafb-4e1e61e0d42c.sites.pages.cloud.gov/preview/gsa/idmanagement.gov/0512-identity-policy-matrix/governance/policymatrix/){:target="_blank"}{:rel="noopener noreferrer"}
